tutorials/Django_and_nginx.rst, before:

Setting up Django and your web server with uWSGI and nginx
==========================================================

.. highlight:: bash

This tutorial is aimed at the Django user who wants to set up a production web
server. It takes you through the steps required to set up Django so that it
works nicely with uWSGI and nginx. It covers all three components, providing a
complete stack of web application and server software.

Django_ is a high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.

.. _Django: http://djangoproject.com/

nginx_ (pronounced *engine-x*) is a free, open-source, high-performance HTTP server and reverse proxy, as well as an IMAP/POP3 proxy server.

.. _nginx: http://nginx.org/


Some notes about this tutorial
------------------------------

.. admonition:: Note

    This is a **tutorial**. It is not intended to provide a reference guide,
    never mind an exhaustive reference, to the subject of deployment.

nginx and uWSGI are good choices for Django deployment, but they are not the
only ones, or the 'official' ones. There are excellent alternatives to both, and
you are encouraged to investigate them.

The way we deploy Django here is a good way, but it is **not** the *only* way;
for some purposes it is probably not even the best way.

It is however a reliable and easy way, and the material covered here will
introduce you to concepts and procedures you will need to be familiar with
whatever software you use for deploying Django. By providing you with a working
setup, and rehearsing the steps you must take to get there, it will offer you a
basis for exploring other ways to achieve this.

.. admonition:: Note

	This tutorial makes some assumptions about the system you are using.

It is assumed that you are using a Unix-like system, and that it features
an aptitude-like package manager. However if you need to ask questions like
"What's the equivalent of aptitude on Mac OS X?", you'll be able to find that
kind of help fairly easily.

While this tutorial assumes Django 1.4 or later, which will automatically create
a wsgi module in your new project, the instructions will work with earlier
versions. You will though need to obtain that Django wsgi module yourself, and
you may find that the Django project directory structure is slightly different.


Concept
-------

A web server faces the outside world. It can serve files (HTML, images, CSS,
etc) directly from the file system. However, it can't talk *directly* to Django
applications; it needs something that will run the application, feed it requests
from web clients (such as browsers) and return responses.

A Web Server Gateway Interface - WSGI - does this job. WSGI_ is a Python standard.

.. _WSGI: http://wsgi.org/

uWSGI is a WSGI implementation. In this tutorial we will set up uWSGI so that it
creates a Unix socket, and serves responses to the web server via the uwsgi
protocol. At the end, our complete stack of components will look like this::

    the web client <-> the web server <-> the socket <-> uwsgi <-> Django

Before you start setting up uWSGI
---------------------------------

virtualenv
^^^^^^^^^^

Make sure you are in a virtualenv for the software we need to install (we will
describe how to install a system-wide uwsgi later):

.. code-block:: bash

    virtualenv uwsgi-tutorial
    cd uwsgi-tutorial
    source bin/activate

Django
^^^^^^

Install Django into your virtualenv, create a new project, and ``cd`` into the
project:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install Django
    django-admin.py startproject mysite 
    cd mysite

About the domain and port
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this tutorial we will call your domain ``example.com``. Substitute your own
FQDN or IP address.

Throughout, we'll be using port 8000 for the web server to publish on, just like
the Django runserver does by default. You can use whatever port you want of
course, but I have chosen this one so it doesn't conflict with anything a web
server might be doing already.

Basic uWSGI installation and configuration
------------------------------------------

Install uWSGI into your virtualenv
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install uwsgi
    
Of course there are other ways to install uWSGI, but this one is as good as
any. Remember that you will need to have Python development packages installed. 
In the case of Debian, or Debian-derived systems such as Ubuntu, what you need 
to have installed is ``pythonX.Y-dev``, where X.Y is your version of Python.

Basic test
^^^^^^^^^^

Create a file called ``test.py``::

    # test.py
    def application(env, start_response):
        start_response('200 OK', [('Content-Type','text/html')])
        return [b"Hello World"] # python3
	#return ["Hello World"] # python2

.. note:: Take into account that Python 3 requires ``bytes()``.

Run uWSGI:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --http :8000 --wsgi-file test.py

The options mean:

* ``http :8000``: use protocol http, port 8000 

* ``wsgi-file test.py``: load the specified file, test.py

This should serve a 'hello world' message directly to the browser on port 8000.
Visit::

    http://example.com:8000

to check. If so, it means the following stack of components works::

    the web client <-> uWSGI <-> Python

Test your Django project
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now we want uWSGI to do the same thing, but to run a Django site instead of the
``test.py`` module.

If you haven't already done so, make sure that your ``mysite`` project actually works::

    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000

And if that works, run it using uWSGI::

    uwsgi --http :8000 --module mysite.wsgi

* ``module mysite.wsgi``: load the specified wsgi module

Point your browser at the server; if the site appears, it means uWSGI is able to
serve your Django application from your virtualenv, and this stack operates
correctly::

    the web client <-> uWSGI <-> Django

Now normally we won't have the browser speaking directly to uWSGI. That's a job
for the webserver, which will act as a go-between.

Basic nginx
-----------

Install nginx
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get install nginx  
    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx start    # start nginx

And now check that nginx is serving by visiting it in a web browser on port
80 - you should get a message from nginx: "Welcome to nginx!". That means these
components of the full stack are working together::

    the web client <-> the web server

If something else *is* already serving on port 80 and you want to use nginx
there, you'll have to reconfigure nginx to serve on a different port. For this
tutorial though, we're going to be using port 8000.

Configure nginx for your site
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need the ``uwsgi_params`` file, which is available in the ``nginx``
directory of the uWSGI distribution, or from
https://github.com/nginx/nginx/blob/master/conf/uwsgi_params

Copy it into your project directory. In a moment we will tell nginx to refer to
it.

Now create a file called mysite_nginx.conf in the /etc/nginx/sites-available/ directory, and put this in it::

    # mysite_nginx.conf

    # the upstream component nginx needs to connect to
    upstream django {
        # server unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock; # for a file socket
        server 127.0.0.1:8001; # for a web port socket (we'll use this first) 
    }
 
    # configuration of the server
    server {
        # the port your site will be served on
        listen      8000;
        # the domain name it will serve for
        server_name example.com; # substitute your machine's IP address or FQDN
        charset     utf-8;
   
        # max upload size
        client_max_body_size 75M;   # adjust to taste

        # Django media
        location /media  {
            alias /path/to/your/mysite/media;  # your Django project's media files - amend as required
        }
   
        location /static {
            alias /path/to/your/mysite/static; # your Django project's static files - amend as required
        }
   
        # Finally, send all non-media requests to the Django server.
        location / {
            uwsgi_pass  django;
            include     /path/to/your/mysite/uwsgi_params; # the uwsgi_params file you installed
        }
    }

This conf file tells nginx to serve up media and static files from the
filesystem, as well as handle requests that require Django's intervention. For a
large deployment it is considered good practice to let one server handle
static/media files, and another handle Django applications, but for now, this
will do just fine.

Symlink to this file from /etc/nginx/sites-enabled so nginx can see it:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/mysite_nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/

Deploying static files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before running nginx, you have to collect all Django static files in the static 
folder. First of all you have to edit mysite/settings.py adding:

.. code-block:: Python

    STATIC_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "static/")

and then run

.. code-block:: bash

    python manage.py collectstatic



Basic nginx test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Restart nginx:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart

To check that media files are being served correctly, add an image called
``media.png`` to the ``/path/to/your/project/project/media directory``, then
visit http://example.com:8000/media/media.png - if this works, you'll know at
least that nginx is serving files correctly.

It is worth not just restarting nginx, but actually stopping and then starting
it again, which will inform you if there is a problem, and where it is.

nginx and uWSGI and test.py
---------------------------

Let's get nginx to speak to the "hello world" ``test.py`` application.

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket :8001 --wsgi-file test.py

This is nearly the same as before, except this time one of the options is
different:

* ``socket :8001``: use protocol uwsgi, port 8001 

nginx meanwhile has been configured to communicate with uWSGI on that port, and
with the outside world on port 8000. Visit:

http://example.com:8000/

to check. And this is our stack::

    the web client <-> the web server <-> the socket <-> uWSGI <-> Python

Meanwhile, you can try to have a look at the uwsgi output at
http://example.com:8001 - but quite probably, it won't work because your browser
speaks http, not uWSGI, though you should see output from uWSGI in your
terminal.

Using Unix sockets instead of ports
-----------------------------------

So far we have used a TCP port socket, because it's simpler, but in fact it's
better to use Unix sockets than ports - there's less overhead.

Edit ``mysite_nginx.conf``, changing it to match:: 

    server unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock; # for a file socket
    # server 127.0.0.1:8001; # for a web port socket (we'll use this first) 

and restart nginx.

Run uWSGI again:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py 

This time the ``socket`` option tells uWSGI which file to use.

Try http://example.com:8000/ in the browser.

If that doesn't work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Check your nginx error log(/var/log/nginx/error.log). If you see something like::

    connect() to unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock failed (13: Permission
    denied)

then probably you need to manage the permissions on the socket so that nginx is
allowed to use it.

Try::

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py --chmod-socket=666 # (very permissive)

or::

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py --chmod-socket=664 # (more sensible) 

You may also have to add your user to nginx's group (which is probably
www-data), or vice-versa, so that nginx can read and write to your socket
properly. 

It's worth keeping the output of the nginx log running in a terminal window so
you can easily refer to it while troubleshooting.

Running the Django application with uwsgi and nginx
---------------------------------------------------

Let's run our Django application:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --module mysite.wsgi --chmod-socket=664

Now uWSGI and nginx should be serving up not just a "Hello World" module, but
your Django project.

Configuring uWSGI to run with a .ini file
-----------------------------------------

We can put the same options that we used with uWSGI into a file, and then ask
uWSGI to run with that file. It makes it easier to manage configurations.

Create a file called ```mysite_uwsgi.ini```::

    # mysite_uwsgi.ini file
    [uwsgi]

    # Django-related settings
    # the base directory (full path)
    chdir           = /path/to/your/project 
    # Django's wsgi file
    module          = project.wsgi
    # the virtualenv (full path) 
    home            = /path/to/virtualenv

    # process-related settings
    # master
    master          = true
    # maximum number of worker processes
    processes       = 10
    # the socket (use the full path to be safe
    socket          = /path/to/your/project/mysite.sock 
    # ... with appropriate permissions - may be needed
    # chmod-socket    = 664
    # clear environment on exit
    vacuum          = true           

And run uwsgi using this file:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --ini mysite_uwsgi.ini # the --ini option is used to specify a file

Once again, test that the Django site works as expected.

Install uWSGI system-wide
-------------------------

So far, uWSGI is only installed in our virtualenv; we'll need it installed
system-wide for deployment purposes.

Deactivate your virtualenv::

    deactivate

and install uWSGI system-wide::

    sudo pip install uwsgi
                                                             
    # Or install LTS (long term support).
    pip install https://projects.unbit.it/downloads/uwsgi-lts.tar.gz

The uWSGI wiki describes several `installation procedures`_. Before installing
uWSGI system-wide, it's worth considering which version to choose and the most
apppropriate way of installing it.

.. _installation procedures: https://projects.unbit.it/uwsgi/wiki/Install
 
Check again that you can still run uWSGI just like you did before:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --ini mysite_uwsgi.ini # the --ini option is used to specify a file

Emperor mode
------------

uWSGI can run in 'emperor' mode. In this mode it keeps an eye on a directory of
uWSGI config files, and will spawn instances ('vassals') for each one it finds.

Whenever a config file is amended, the emperor will automatically restart the
vassal.

.. code-block:: bash

    # create a directory for the vassals
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/uwsgi/vassals
    # symlink from the default config directory to your config file
    sudo ln -s /path/to/your/mysite/mysite_uwsgi.ini /etc/uwsgi/vassals/
    # run the emperor
    uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data

You may need to run uWSGI with sudo:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data

The options mean:

* ``emperor``: where to look for vassals (config files)
* ``uid``: the user id of the process once it's started
* ``gid``: the group id of the process once it's started
 
Check the site; it should be running.

Make uWSGI startup when the system boots
----------------------------------------

The last step is to make it all happen automatically at system startup time.

For many systems, the easiest (if not the best) way to do this is to use the ``rc.local`` file.

Edit ``/etc/rc.local`` and add::

    /usr/local/bin/uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data --daemonize /var/log/uwsgi-emperor.log

before the line "exit 0".

And that should be it!

Further configuration
---------------------

It is important to understand that this has been a *tutorial*, to get you
started. You **do** need to read the nginx and uWSGI documentation, and study
the options available before deployment in a production environment.

Both nginx and uWSGI benefit from friendly communities, who are able to offer
invaluable advice about configuration and usage.

nginx
^^^^^

General configuration of nginx is not within the scope of this tutorial though
you'll probably want it to listen on port 80, not 8000, for a production
website.

You should also configure a separate nginx location block for serving non-Django
files. For example, it's inefficient to serve static files via uWSGI. Instead, 
serve them directly from Nginx and completely bypass uWSGI.

uWSGI
^^^^^

uWSGI supports multiple ways to configure it. See `uWSGI's documentation`_ and
`examples`_.

.. _uWSGI's documentation: https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io
.. _examples: https://projects.unbit.it/uwsgi/wiki/Example

Some uWSGI options have been mentioned in this tutorial; others you ought to
look at for a deployment in production include (listed here with example
settings)::

    env = DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=mysite.settings # set an environment variable
    safe-pidfile = /tmp/project-master.pid # create a pidfile
    harakiri = 20 # respawn processes taking more than 20 seconds
    limit-as = 128 # limit the project to 128 MB
    max-requests = 5000 # respawn processes after serving 5000 requests
    daemonize = /var/log/uwsgi/yourproject.log # background the process & log

Commit message:

Django needs more information to locate media files

tutorials/Django_and_nginx.rst, after:

Setting up Django and your web server with uWSGI and nginx
==========================================================

.. highlight:: bash

This tutorial is aimed at the Django user who wants to set up a production web
server. It takes you through the steps required to set up Django so that it
works nicely with uWSGI and nginx. It covers all three components, providing a
complete stack of web application and server software.

Django_ is a high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.

.. _Django: http://djangoproject.com/

nginx_ (pronounced *engine-x*) is a free, open-source, high-performance HTTP server and reverse proxy, as well as an IMAP/POP3 proxy server.

.. _nginx: http://nginx.org/


Some notes about this tutorial
------------------------------

.. admonition:: Note

    This is a **tutorial**. It is not intended to provide a reference guide,
    never mind an exhaustive reference, to the subject of deployment.

nginx and uWSGI are good choices for Django deployment, but they are not the
only ones, or the 'official' ones. There are excellent alternatives to both, and
you are encouraged to investigate them.

The way we deploy Django here is a good way, but it is **not** the *only* way;
for some purposes it is probably not even the best way.

It is however a reliable and easy way, and the material covered here will
introduce you to concepts and procedures you will need to be familiar with
whatever software you use for deploying Django. By providing you with a working
setup, and rehearsing the steps you must take to get there, it will offer you a
basis for exploring other ways to achieve this.

.. admonition:: Note

	This tutorial makes some assumptions about the system you are using.

It is assumed that you are using a Unix-like system, and that it features
an aptitude-like package manager. However if you need to ask questions like
"What's the equivalent of aptitude on Mac OS X?", you'll be able to find that
kind of help fairly easily.

While this tutorial assumes Django 1.4 or later, which will automatically create
a wsgi module in your new project, the instructions will work with earlier
versions. You will though need to obtain that Django wsgi module yourself, and
you may find that the Django project directory structure is slightly different.


Concept
-------

A web server faces the outside world. It can serve files (HTML, images, CSS,
etc) directly from the file system. However, it can't talk *directly* to Django
applications; it needs something that will run the application, feed it requests
from web clients (such as browsers) and return responses.

A Web Server Gateway Interface - WSGI - does this job. WSGI_ is a Python standard.

.. _WSGI: http://wsgi.org/

uWSGI is a WSGI implementation. In this tutorial we will set up uWSGI so that it
creates a Unix socket, and serves responses to the web server via the uwsgi
protocol. At the end, our complete stack of components will look like this::

    the web client <-> the web server <-> the socket <-> uwsgi <-> Django

Before you start setting up uWSGI
---------------------------------

virtualenv
^^^^^^^^^^

Make sure you are in a virtualenv for the software we need to install (we will
describe how to install a system-wide uwsgi later):

.. code-block:: bash

    virtualenv uwsgi-tutorial
    cd uwsgi-tutorial
    source bin/activate

Django
^^^^^^

Install Django into your virtualenv, create a new project, and ``cd`` into the
project:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install Django
    django-admin.py startproject mysite 
    cd mysite

About the domain and port
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this tutorial we will call your domain ``example.com``. Substitute your own
FQDN or IP address.

Throughout, we'll be using port 8000 for the web server to publish on, just like
the Django runserver does by default. You can use whatever port you want of
course, but I have chosen this one so it doesn't conflict with anything a web
server might be doing already.

Basic uWSGI installation and configuration
------------------------------------------

Install uWSGI into your virtualenv
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install uwsgi
    
Of course there are other ways to install uWSGI, but this one is as good as
any. Remember that you will need to have Python development packages installed. 
In the case of Debian, or Debian-derived systems such as Ubuntu, what you need 
to have installed is ``pythonX.Y-dev``, where X.Y is your version of Python.

Basic test
^^^^^^^^^^

Create a file called ``test.py``::

    # test.py
    def application(env, start_response):
        start_response('200 OK', [('Content-Type','text/html')])
        return [b"Hello World"] # python3
	#return ["Hello World"] # python2

.. note:: Take into account that Python 3 requires ``bytes()``.

Run uWSGI:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --http :8000 --wsgi-file test.py

The options mean:

* ``http :8000``: use protocol http, port 8000 

* ``wsgi-file test.py``: load the specified file, test.py

This should serve a 'hello world' message directly to the browser on port 8000.
Visit::

    http://example.com:8000

to check. If so, it means the following stack of components works::

    the web client <-> uWSGI <-> Python

Test your Django project
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now we want uWSGI to do the same thing, but to run a Django site instead of the
``test.py`` module.

If you haven't already done so, make sure that your ``mysite`` project actually works::

    python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000

And if that works, run it using uWSGI::

    uwsgi --http :8000 --module mysite.wsgi

* ``module mysite.wsgi``: load the specified wsgi module

Point your browser at the server; if the site appears, it means uWSGI is able to
serve your Django application from your virtualenv, and this stack operates
correctly::

    the web client <-> uWSGI <-> Django

Now normally we won't have the browser speaking directly to uWSGI. That's a job
for the webserver, which will act as a go-between.

Basic nginx
-----------

Install nginx
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get install nginx  
    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx start    # start nginx

And now check that nginx is serving by visiting it in a web browser on port
80 - you should get a message from nginx: "Welcome to nginx!". That means these
components of the full stack are working together::

    the web client <-> the web server

If something else *is* already serving on port 80 and you want to use nginx
there, you'll have to reconfigure nginx to serve on a different port. For this
tutorial though, we're going to be using port 8000.

Configure nginx for your site
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need the ``uwsgi_params`` file, which is available in the ``nginx``
directory of the uWSGI distribution, or from
https://github.com/nginx/nginx/blob/master/conf/uwsgi_params

Copy it into your project directory. In a moment we will tell nginx to refer to
it.

Now create a file called mysite_nginx.conf in the /etc/nginx/sites-available/ directory, and put this in it::

    # mysite_nginx.conf

    # the upstream component nginx needs to connect to
    upstream django {
        # server unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock; # for a file socket
        server 127.0.0.1:8001; # for a web port socket (we'll use this first) 
    }
 
    # configuration of the server
    server {
        # the port your site will be served on
        listen      8000;
        # the domain name it will serve for
        server_name example.com; # substitute your machine's IP address or FQDN
        charset     utf-8;
   
        # max upload size
        client_max_body_size 75M;   # adjust to taste

        # Django media
        location /media  {
            alias /path/to/your/mysite/media;  # your Django project's media files - amend as required
        }
   
        location /static {
            alias /path/to/your/mysite/static; # your Django project's static files - amend as required
        }
   
        # Finally, send all non-media requests to the Django server.
        location / {
            uwsgi_pass  django;
            include     /path/to/your/mysite/uwsgi_params; # the uwsgi_params file you installed
        }
    }

This conf file tells nginx to serve up media and static files from the
filesystem, as well as handle requests that require Django's intervention. For a
large deployment it is considered good practice to let one server handle
static/media files, and another handle Django applications, but for now, this
will do just fine.

Symlink to this file from /etc/nginx/sites-enabled so nginx can see it:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/mysite_nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/

Deploying static files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before running nginx, you have to collect all Django static files in the static 
folder. First of all you have to edit mysite/settings.py adding:

.. code-block:: Python

    STATIC_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "static/")

and then run

.. code-block:: bash

    python manage.py collectstatic



Basic nginx test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Restart nginx:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart

To check that media files are being served correctly, add an image called
``media.png`` to the ``/path/to/your/project/project/media directory``, then
visit http://example.com:8000/media/media.png - if this works, you'll know at
least that nginx is serving files correctly.

If this does not work, you may need to add the following to mysite/settings.py so Django can locate your media files.
.. code-block:: Python
	MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
	MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'media')

It is worth not just restarting nginx, but actually stopping and then starting
it again, which will inform you if there is a problem, and where it is.

nginx and uWSGI and test.py
---------------------------

Let's get nginx to speak to the "hello world" ``test.py`` application.

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket :8001 --wsgi-file test.py

This is nearly the same as before, except this time one of the options is
different:

* ``socket :8001``: use protocol uwsgi, port 8001 

nginx meanwhile has been configured to communicate with uWSGI on that port, and
with the outside world on port 8000. Visit:

http://example.com:8000/

to check. And this is our stack::

    the web client <-> the web server <-> the socket <-> uWSGI <-> Python

Meanwhile, you can try to have a look at the uwsgi output at
http://example.com:8001 - but quite probably, it won't work because your browser
speaks http, not uWSGI, though you should see output from uWSGI in your
terminal.

Using Unix sockets instead of ports
-----------------------------------

So far we have used a TCP port socket, because it's simpler, but in fact it's
better to use Unix sockets than ports - there's less overhead.

Edit ``mysite_nginx.conf``, changing it to match:: 

    server unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock; # for a file socket
    # server 127.0.0.1:8001; # for a web port socket (we'll use this first) 

and restart nginx.

Run uWSGI again:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py 

This time the ``socket`` option tells uWSGI which file to use.

Try http://example.com:8000/ in the browser.

If that doesn't work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Check your nginx error log(/var/log/nginx/error.log). If you see something like::

    connect() to unix:///path/to/your/mysite/mysite.sock failed (13: Permission
    denied)

then probably you need to manage the permissions on the socket so that nginx is
allowed to use it.

Try::

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py --chmod-socket=666 # (very permissive)

or::

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --wsgi-file test.py --chmod-socket=664 # (more sensible) 

You may also have to add your user to nginx's group (which is probably
www-data), or vice-versa, so that nginx can read and write to your socket
properly. 

It's worth keeping the output of the nginx log running in a terminal window so
you can easily refer to it while troubleshooting.

Running the Django application with uwsgi and nginx
---------------------------------------------------

Let's run our Django application:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --socket mysite.sock --module mysite.wsgi --chmod-socket=664

Now uWSGI and nginx should be serving up not just a "Hello World" module, but
your Django project.

Configuring uWSGI to run with a .ini file
-----------------------------------------

We can put the same options that we used with uWSGI into a file, and then ask
uWSGI to run with that file. It makes it easier to manage configurations.

Create a file called ```mysite_uwsgi.ini```::

    # mysite_uwsgi.ini file
    [uwsgi]

    # Django-related settings
    # the base directory (full path)
    chdir           = /path/to/your/project 
    # Django's wsgi file
    module          = project.wsgi
    # the virtualenv (full path) 
    home            = /path/to/virtualenv

    # process-related settings
    # master
    master          = true
    # maximum number of worker processes
    processes       = 10
    # the socket (use the full path to be safe
    socket          = /path/to/your/project/mysite.sock 
    # ... with appropriate permissions - may be needed
    # chmod-socket    = 664
    # clear environment on exit
    vacuum          = true           

And run uwsgi using this file:

.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --ini mysite_uwsgi.ini # the --ini option is used to specify a file

Once again, test that the Django site works as expected.

Install uWSGI system-wide
-------------------------

So far, uWSGI is only installed in our virtualenv; we'll need it installed
system-wide for deployment purposes.

Deactivate your virtualenv::

    deactivate

and install uWSGI system-wide::

    sudo pip install uwsgi
                                                             
    # Or install LTS (long term support).
    pip install https://projects.unbit.it/downloads/uwsgi-lts.tar.gz

The uWSGI wiki describes several `installation procedures`_. Before installing
uWSGI system-wide, it's worth considering which version to choose and the most
apppropriate way of installing it.

.. _installation procedures: https://projects.unbit.it/uwsgi/wiki/Install
 
Check again that you can still run uWSGI just like you did before:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    uwsgi --ini mysite_uwsgi.ini # the --ini option is used to specify a file

Emperor mode
------------

uWSGI can run in 'emperor' mode. In this mode it keeps an eye on a directory of
uWSGI config files, and will spawn instances ('vassals') for each one it finds.

Whenever a config file is amended, the emperor will automatically restart the
vassal.

.. code-block:: bash

    # create a directory for the vassals
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/uwsgi/vassals
    # symlink from the default config directory to your config file
    sudo ln -s /path/to/your/mysite/mysite_uwsgi.ini /etc/uwsgi/vassals/
    # run the emperor
    uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data

You may need to run uWSGI with sudo:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data

The options mean:

* ``emperor``: where to look for vassals (config files)
* ``uid``: the user id of the process once it's started
* ``gid``: the group id of the process once it's started
 
Check the site; it should be running.

Make uWSGI startup when the system boots
----------------------------------------

The last step is to make it all happen automatically at system startup time.

For many systems, the easiest (if not the best) way to do this is to use the ``rc.local`` file.

Edit ``/etc/rc.local`` and add::

    /usr/local/bin/uwsgi --emperor /etc/uwsgi/vassals --uid www-data --gid www-data --daemonize /var/log/uwsgi-emperor.log

before the line "exit 0".

And that should be it!

Further configuration
---------------------

It is important to understand that this has been a *tutorial*, to get you
started. You **do** need to read the nginx and uWSGI documentation, and study
the options available before deployment in a production environment.

Both nginx and uWSGI benefit from friendly communities, who are able to offer
invaluable advice about configuration and usage.

nginx
^^^^^

General configuration of nginx is not within the scope of this tutorial though
you'll probably want it to listen on port 80, not 8000, for a production
website.

You should also configure a separate nginx location block for serving non-Django
files. For example, it's inefficient to serve static files via uWSGI. Instead, 
serve them directly from Nginx and completely bypass uWSGI.

uWSGI
^^^^^

uWSGI supports multiple ways to configure it. See `uWSGI's documentation`_ and
`examples`_.

.. _uWSGI's documentation: https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io
.. _examples: https://projects.unbit.it/uwsgi/wiki/Example

Some uWSGI options have been mentioned in this tutorial; others you ought to
look at for a deployment in production include (listed here with example
settings)::

    env = DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=mysite.settings # set an environment variable
    safe-pidfile = /tmp/project-master.pid # create a pidfile
    harakiri = 20 # respawn processes taking more than 20 seconds
    limit-as = 128 # limit the project to 128 MB
    max-requests = 5000 # respawn processes after serving 5000 requests
    daemonize = /var/log/uwsgi/yourproject.log # background the process & log
